Civilian

Experiences
"I always ask people what they had seen or how they had felt during those times. They 
say so many different things. They don't all share the same pages, it's like they haven't 
experienced the same world from the one city."
Teachers, students, engineers, bartenders. Just a few examples of the people you will 
hear about now and the times and places they love and hate. I want you to play a game 
with me. "How do you think these people really feel? Do they actually care?" Just ask 
yourself some little questions about them.

---------------------------------------------------

Off-Duty Development
"One thing that many commanders neglect is to build a community for 
their soldiers to go home to. It's easy to forget that the only reason many 
fight is to protect the place they want to see again, so we have to make a 
place that they'll want to protect."

---------------------------------------------------

Adequete Medicines
"Even if many don't see them as human, we shouldn't neglect their health 
and refuse to provide for them. They're more human than they think. They 
can become ill, too."

Medical Bay
"We have to ename the repair bay. It feels wrong putting them on the 
same level as our vehicles and equipment. They have feelings and they 
have needs. It's completely wrong label them as machines."

Blue Collars
"Some of these girls have a calling. I know that sounds weird and totally 
impossible, but some of them do really have ambitions to be such good 
people. We could, at the very least, let them help however they can."

Fevers and Plagues
"You're right in that regard. No, they can't catch some diseases such as 
the Black Death or Red Fever. However, if they're to work among patients 
that DO have these illnesses, they should still follow regulations. It's a 
gesture to their work, not just their safety."

Strained Minds
"If not primary, then secondary health is important to these girls. Even if 
their lives aren't mortally endangered by infections, they still hurt on the 
inside like how we do. They just feel like the pain is natural since it's all 
they've known."

Peace Of Mind
"When the drums of war ring through the fields to signal death, the 
merciless march trembles through the earth. You can't cover your own 
ears to deafen it. Only someone else can silence the beats of blood."

Mental Afflictions
"When the stress causes the bridge to snap, they fall into their own 
personal hell of individual demons and curses. Everyone reacts 
differently. Despair, Breakdown, Murder. As they fall one by one, I hear the 
little girl pounding on the door. None of them can escape."

They're Just Children
"Children of War. They're not soldiers, at least not anymore. They've lost 
their commander, their weapons, and their minds. They can't be labelled 
as a soldier in this state. They're just children. Don't you remember how 
nice things were when Exali took care of them?"

The Sweet Dreams of Me
"When all of the children drifted away to sleep, the night was only 
occupied by the distant rains colliding with the window and the gentle 
breathing of the little girls. The father made himself comfortable beside 
one bed and softly held his daughter's hand to let the night pass in 
silence."

---------------------------------------------------

Down By The River
"Isn't it cute? It's nothing too extravagant or fancy like the Hibiscus Pass, 
but I think it's cute for how it is. The little stream in the forest. Clear as 
glass and still as the flowers. I love this place."

Mellows
"These little guys always grow by the rivers. They're very small and can't 
grow very big. They soil down here isn't very nutritious since it keeps 
getting washed away. Maybe if I fed the little guys, they would grow really 
big and strong."

Midnight Drink
"It's a very different experience. Waking up in the middle of the night and 
grabbing a cup from the cabinet. It's dark outside, but a serene darkness 
rather than the ominous dusks. It feels surreal to live at that time. It's like 
you haven't actually woken up yet."

Raven's Bar
"So girl, what'd'ya get up to this time? You don't usually come by at this 
hour unless some real s*** went down. Y'doin' okay? Want something a 
little stronger?
I'll let you keep running girl. I know there's no fixing some things and you 
just got unlucky you didn't get to pick."

Something A Little Sweeter
"You should probably do something about her addiction. Every night she 
comes home with another 2, 3 bottles and I'm worried for her. Do you 
really think these sorts of addictions are healthy? They keep her sane, but 
what are the costs for it?"

The Lone Russian's Warmth
"Ah, well. Looks like it's just me here. Snow rolls in and all of my friends 
die to hypothermia. If only they weren't lightweights they could have made 
it this far. Bottoms up!
Alcohol does wonders. Helps me forget the death and keeps me away 
from the cold. What a miracle invention."

Medically Advised
"Is this really what it comes down to? She's so broken beyond repair that 
the only way for her to live is to always live off a high? Do we really have 
no other choice?"

People like us don't get to make choices. We do it or die, end of."

---------------------------------------------------

Re-enacted Purpose
"The issue with taking the girls out of war is that all they have ever known 
is to fight. Once they leave this place, they end up lost without a sense of 
purpose or what to do. They don't actually understand anything regarding 
life."

Neighbourhood Cafe
"I don't reckon you've seen that show have you? It's gotten three seasons 
yet, it's so under-the-radar. Cute highschool girls working part time in a 
cafe, absolutely adorable experience. It's good for your health, you need 
some life outside of the war desolation."

The Old Maid Chocolatiers
"A lovely way to pass the time. The kitchen's always in a mess come the 
end of the day, but we wen't bother them with that responsibility. The 
sweer smell seeps through the door and cloaks the cafeteria and the 
hallways. It's a lovely smell for sure."

Experience Contracts
"In the Intermediate Year of high school, students supposedly take up 
work experience with local services or businesses to see what the career 
is like. We could do the same, once we get the girls out of here."

Permanent Development
"They're lucky enough to be able to get away from this and actually do 
great things, instead of jumping headfirst into doom with each 
deployment. If they can make something of themselves outside, we 
shouldn't tell them to come back."

---------------------------------------------------

A Regular Education
"Most of these girls don't know anything apart from their wartime survival 
instincts. Maybe, at least for the younger ones, we should start treating 
them like real people."

Supplementary Materials
"It's not the greatest idea to have these kids go out on their own and 
figure out what they need for school. For the first few times, we can give 
them what they need to avoid many complications on the first few days."

Specialized Development
"With how these girls were(essentially) raised, some of them are adept in 
certain fields rather than others. They're much more human than we give 
them credit for. With this knowledge, I believe it is necessary to set up 
education districts based on what each girl knows well and knows poorly."

CSPE Syllabus
"Civic, Social, and Political Education is an important subject in many 
schools to give the students a different outlook on many scenarios around 
the world. By teaching our soldiers, they will be able to better respond to 
situations regarding local people and their environment."

Tertiary Education
"While we are ensuring the most important age group gets a standard 
education, there are still many things that the older groups can learn. We 
need to expand our capabilities and provide for the rest of our units."

Tertiary Economics
"Some of these girls have a real knack for the big stuff. You would never 
guess that they'd have such a natural talent when it comes to business. 
D'you think it of a good idea when I suggest we let them in on the trades?"

Education Integration
"Some of these girls were born into the war. Some of these girls were pulled 
into the war due to unfortunate circumstances. Perhaps it would be nice 
to let them return to the state of peace that they are fighting for."

Government Shift
"I'm sure many of these fine women have proven much more than worthy 
of joining the internal ranks. Smart with words, quick on the mind and 
poweful in the voice. They've become leaders."

---------------------------------------------------

Community Roadmaps
"It's far too difficult to have to tear down and rebuild an entire district 
because you need to expand. The winding roads and districts must be laid 
out in advance so we can avoid this repetition."

Road To Home
"This was the path we used to take going home every day. It's a little out 
of the way and it doesn't exactly look like a pleasent place to walk 
through, but this was a place where we thought only we knew about. 
When you're young like that, feeling like you're the only person in the 
entire world that knows something. It feels like you can fight God almost.

Beach House Reeds
"To find the path, you don't look for the grass that's slightly less colourful 
than the rest. You look into the reeds and try to find the ones that seem 
the most vibrant. The reeds by the path grow a lot better. I don't know 
why. Maybe my daughter waters them in the mornings or it could just be 
her energetic personality spreading to them. The dull plants learning from 
the noisy one. A metaphor for... something."

Around The Block
"You can quite clearly see all the marks on the road. Every time we rode 
around on our bikes and almost hit a car driving down. Thos days where 
we'd tumble across the hood of some old man's Mustang and then dip to 
the next neighbourhood to lay low. Outlaws, we were. I miss those days."

"Say hello to the Don"
"Those boys out there are some of the craziest guys you'll meet. They try 
to act tough, like a gang in a way. Kick the ball towards you and then 
they'll aggressively walk to you with the weirdest strut they'd learned from 
an old movie. They might have been at least somewhat threatening if it 
wasn't for the fact that're all so short."

Rin's First Bike
"Ayaya. You don't gotta bring this up so often. Yes, I remember my first bike. 
Sixteenth birthday and my dad still hadn't left his old days of being young. He 
got me my first bike. It wasn't the one you'd see outside a shabby bar but one 
of those cool ones that you could bring to a race. A Shizuko AX-908. Top of 
her class in every aspect. Her speed, control, and her purrs. I'll never forget 
that one. E-Especially since I had crashed her on my first trip down the IM4..."

Asphalt
"The Darina IM5 Stretch. You lived in that city, you had a car. You couldn't live 
life down there without one. If you couldn't afford it, one of your neighbours 
got one for you. Racing is our way of life. The asphalt stretch, the one coated 
in rubber. They have to repaint the lines every 3 years because of how much we 
race down there. Each late spring, the highway shuts down for the annual Darina 
Downland Drift and the hype is insane. You have to go to one of those at some point 
in your life. There's never a dull moment. Doesn't even matter what car you bring, 
you race!"

---------------------------------------------------

Serviceable Prerequisites
"There are certain things that every advancing town requires before they 
can really thrive. There's no point in integrating every service and luxury if 
there's no way for it to run."

Energetic Demands
"Step one is to develop a power grid that can provide electricity or another 
stable form of energy to power necessary technologies and equipment for 
government and local use."

(In order to further develop the energy grid, we will require development 
of Territorial Security to protect the valuable technologies.)

Power Complexes
"Step two is to construct power banks and energy containers to store the excess 
energy for use abroad or in times of emergency to generate additional government 
funds and reliably run important tech."

(Of course, we can't simply generate all of this power out in the open using expensive 
technology. Territorial Security must defend these points(or Scorch them) to prevent 
criminals from stealing his high-end equipment.)

Regional Communications
"The first step is to to make sure medical emergencies don't go unreported 
and to ensure the reliable detection and relay of certain informations."

(We cannot develop our communications any further without the use of 
government technologies, such as Automated Spies. Without 
such, the information is exposed and can be intercepted easily.)

Channel Linkages
"Next, we have to ensure important signals and messages can be transmitter to 
our allies abroad and beyond as well as allow those off-duty to communicate with 
their close contacts for morale purposes. More allies, the better(in most cases)."

(The use of Automated Spies allows the information to encrypt itself as it pings off 
of many cloaked unmanned devices.)

Reliable Circumvention
"Lastly, the third step is to connect our resources and informations to the Virinian 
global hub so that intel and other can be exchanged intermittently with other 
commanders."

(Although there may still be a few small breaches in the security, the intelligence 
on our adversaries and new unit technologies will prove to be valuable in our 
efforts.)

---------------------------------------------------

Government Initiatives