Smithy followed the iron golem that was his charge as it waded into the sea of battle. Iron ingots in hand, he advanced in its wake, ready to perform battlefield repairs as needed. A particularly brave vindicator charged the golem, only to be met with a metallic fist to the gut. It was pushed back a few blocks, before being taken out by the follow up swing. Another vindicator took the opportunity to get a cheap hit on the golem, but Smithy was ready. Taking an iron ingot and pressing it up against the metal giant, it was absorbed into its hulking form, and the wouns sealed up. The vindicator whirled to face Smithy and lunged, but with a backhand that would crack stone, the pallor-inflicted illager went flying. 


Smithy ran to pick up the emerald from the first vindicator, then signalled the golem forwards. A searing pain bloomed in the villager’s shoulder, and he let out a hiss of pain. Turning, the blacksmith saw an arrow sticking out of his right shoulder. As he did so, he heard the sound of glass shattering, and a pinkish-red liquid spread across his arm. Smithy turned and nodded his thanks to Magerna, who nodded back and readied another flask in case it was needed.


The blacksmith ran to his charge’s side as it swang an overhead strike at a young evoker. The blow was true, but quick as lightning, a sword-wielding vindicator dashed in to block the iron fist. The dark magician behind its savior chuckled, before raising his arms and beginning to chant. The vindicator struck at the golem’s side, before whirling out of the way of a punch and bring her sword down on the metal giant. Smithy pressed more ingots into the golem as it tried in vain to hit the quicksilver warrior.


As the evoker finished chanting, five vexes spawned, the sword-wielding creatures cackling devilishly. They flew towards the lumbering hulk of a golem, harrying it with their blades. It swung its massive fists around at the swarm, managing to reduce one of the flying devils to a puff of smoke. The swordswoman kept slashing away at the golem, most of her blows bouncing off, but enough connecting to do damage. Meanwhile, the vexes kept flying around the metallic giant, distracting the golem and occasionally darting in to jab at it with their blades, and Smithy kept repairing it as fast as he could. 


Another vex was smashed to bits as the golem swang around clumsily. The quicksilver swordswoman kept ducking and dodging. Cracks were beginning to show on the metal man, as Smithy struggled to keep up with the damage being dealt to it. The vindicator circled around the golem and came face to face with the blacksmith. She quickly struck, her sword like a flickering tongue of cold, cruel steel, meeting Smithy’s arm. He stumbled back, dropping his iron ingots. Magerna readied a flask to throw at the vindicator, but a line of jaws popping up from the ground demanded her attention. Smithy held up his arm in an attempt to block the next strike of the swordswoman, and the blade bit into his forearm. She followed up with a kick to his stomach, and he fell to the ground, winded. 


Smithy scrambled to get away, but the warrior approached with measured steps. She raised her sword for what would certainly be the final blow…


And suddenly, Builder was there. Guiding a spearhead of golems made of a darker, shinier metal than usual iron golems, he crashed through the battle like a battering ram, right towards Smithy. 


Two of the golems went for the quicksilver swordswoman, while the rest formed an impenetrable wall around Builder and Smithy. “Kept you waiting, huh?” Builder remarked cheerfully.


“Don’t act so happy about it,” Smithy growled, smiling. The swordswoman was retreating slowly, struggling to parry the blows of both golems at once. The young evoker was also backing away as the last of his vexes were smashed by the golems. 


“Let’s get out of here. You’re golem looks pretty banged up.” Builder held out his hand to help Smithy up.


Smithy took it, and was pulled to his feet. “There’s a battle to be fought, Smithy, and it ain’t over yet.”